A Visit to Grafton by Scott Herrmann

Outside of the Free State Project, Grafton is not on many peoples' radar screens. It is nestled in the woods of New Hampshire, some 30-45 minutes from the nearest major town. Grafton is an area a little larger than 40 square miles, struck through with dirt roads, and far removed from the suburbs and infill which one finds in most of America.

Grafton is a place where people go to escape the complexities of modern life and government regulation. One such person is Peter Bosse II, a former web developer at Apple who moved from California to Grafton in pursuit of his lifelong dream of designing and building his own home for himself and his family. Peter's home is presently a work in progress, with the bones of a beautiful and functional living space. His family's efforts exemplifies a do-it-yourself spirit which I found to be prevalent in Grafton.

Grafton is a place that would probably not appeal to a city slicker. The Free Staters I met, occupy their time by cutting firewood, tending to their animals, improving their properties, and (naturally!) participating in local politics. In Grafton, the do-it-yourself way is a way of life. By moving to Grafton, one gives up many government-provided conveniences, but gains some great benefits in the trade-off: Grafton offers affordable land and the ability for the landowner to build and improve on his land with minimal regulatory stultification.

Grafton is being built from the bottom up, which is a rare thing to see in today's America. It is not a planned community, or a project sponsored by wealthy developers. Instead, it is a place of homesteaders, farmers, builders, and those ready and willing to live off their land. Cable TV and pizza delivery are not very important to Graftonites, but agriculture, tools, and design are.

I found two common themes among the people who I visited in Grafton. The first was pride. Free Staters in Grafton are proud of their homes, farms, and homesteads. In this, I could not help but be reminded of the early American settlers and pioneers of history books, who, armed with little more than love of liberty and the tools in their chests, set about building this great country.

The second theme was that of ambition. Almost every person I met had big plans: plans to build on their land or to improve their homes, and to provide for themselves and their loved ones for many years to come. We can all learn something from the hard-working people in Grafton.

I wish the Free Staters in Grafton great success in the coming years, and I hope that the community there continues to grow and move forward in peace and in liberty.

If you'd like to learn more about what Grafton has to offer, contact Peter for a tour or visit during the Grafton Apple Festival on the last Sunday in September.
